[Docs] [runtime_env] Add instructions on using `.netrc` for remote URIs (#35578)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/ray-core/runtime_env_auth.md

```python
runtime_env = {"working_dir": (
        "https://github.com/"
        "username/repo/archive/refs/heads/master.zip"
    )
}
```

However, dependencies hosted privately, in a private GitHub repo for example, require authentication. One common way to authenticate is to insert credentials into the URI itself:

```python
runtime_env = {"working_dir": (
        "https://username:personal_access_token@github.com/"
        "username/repo/archive/refs/heads/master.zip"
    )
}
```

In this example, `personal_access_token` is a secret credential that authenticates this URI. While Ray can successfully access your dependencies using authenticated URIs, **you should not include secret credentials in your URIs** for two reasons:

1. Ray may log the URIs used in your `runtime_env`, which means the Ray logs could contain your credentials.
2. Ray stores your remote dependency package in a local directory, and it uses a parsed version of the remote URI– including your credential– as the directory's name.

In short, your remote URI is not treated as a secret, so it should not contain secret info. Instead you should use a `.netrc` file.

## Running on VMs: the .netrc File

> The [.netrc file](https://www.gnu.org/software/inetutils/manual/html_node/The-_002enetrc-file.html) contains credentials that Ray uses to automatically log into remote servers. You can set your credentials in this file instead of in the remote URI:

Reviewer: If this is Linux/Mac only, we should probably mention it explicitly

Author: Good catch– I added a note explaining the differences between Unix and Windows systems.

```bash
# "$HOME/.netrc"

> machine github.com

Author: I added a line after the example code.

(runtime-env-auth)=
# Authenticating Remote URIs in your runtime_env

This section helps you:

* Avoid leaking remote URI credentials in your `runtime_env`

> * provide credentials safely in KubeRay

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Provide credentials safely in KubeRay
```

> * understand best practices when authenticating your remote URI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Understand best practices when authenticating your remote URI
```

Author: Should I also capitalize `provide` in the second bullet point?

## Authenticating Remote URIs

> You can add dependencies to your `runtime_env` with [remote URIs](remote-uris). This is straightfoward for files hosted publicly, since you can simply paste the public URI into your `runtime_env`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can add dependencies to your `runtime_env` with [remote URIs](remote-uris). This is straightforward for files hosted publicly, because you simply paste the public URI into your `runtime_env`:
```

```python
runtime_env = {"working_dir": (
        "https://github.com/"
        "username/repo/archive/refs/heads/master.zip"
    )
}
```

However, dependencies hosted privately, in a private GitHub repo for example, require authentication. One common way to authenticate is to insert credentials into the URI itself:

```python
runtime_env = {"working_dir": (
        "https://username:personal_access_token@github.com/"
        "username/repo/archive/refs/heads/master.zip"
    )
}
```

In this example, `personal_access_token` is a secret credential that authenticates this URI. While Ray can successfully access your dependencies using authenticated URIs, **you should not include secret credentials in your URIs** for two reasons:

1. Ray may log the URIs used in your `runtime_env`, which means the Ray logs could contain your credentials.

> 2. Ray stores your remote dependency package in a local directory, and it uses a parsed version of the remote URI– including your credential– as the directory's name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Ray stores your remote dependency package in a local directory, and it uses a parsed version of the remote URI–including your credential– as the directory's name.
```

> In short, your remote URI is not treated as a secret, so it should not contain secret info. Instead you should use a `netrc` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In short, your remote URI is not treated as a secret, so it should not contain secret info. Instead, use a `netrc` file.
```

## Running on VMs: the netrc File

The [netrc file](https://www.gnu.org/software/inetutils/manual/html_node/The-_002enetrc-file.html) contains credentials that Ray uses to automatically log into remote servers. Set your credentials in this file instead of in the remote URI:

> ```bash

Reviewer 3: nit: can we add another example for setting s3 credentials, this is other common use case

Author: Sure, we can do that. Since this PR is reviewed and nearly ready to merge, let's add that in a follow up. Do you have an example of how people are currently setting S3 credentials?

Reviewer 3: I actually don't know. But people have feature request for this: #34708

Author: I see– I took a look at the request, and I don't think a `netrc` file solves the issue. There doesn't seem to be a way to provide an `endpoint_url` or the other S3-specific credentials requested in that issue through the `netrc` file. Let's continue to track that request in that issue.

Reviewer 3: oh, that's a bummer. Ideally we should provide a unified way for authentication.

> The [netrc file](https://www.gnu.org/software/inetutils/manual/html_node/The-_002enetrc-file.html) contains credentials that Ray uses to automatically log into remote servers. You can set your credentials in this file instead of in the remote URI:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [netrc file](https://www.gnu.org/software/inetutils/manual/html_node/The-_002enetrc-file.html) contains credentials that Ray uses to automatically log into remote servers. Set your credentials in this file instead of in the remote URI:
```

# "$HOME/.netrc"

machine github.com
login username
password personal_access_token
```

In this example, the `machine github.com` line specifies that any access to `github.com` should be authenticated using the provided `login` and `password`.

:::{note}

> On Unix, the `netrc` file should be named `.netrc`. On Windows, the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On Unix, name the `netrc` file as `.netrc`. On Windows, name the
```

> file should be named `_netrc`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
file, `_netrc`.
```

:::

The `netrc` file requires owner read/write access, so make sure to run the `chmod` command after creating the file:

```bash
chmod 600 "$HOME/.netrc"
```

> You can add your `netrc` file to your VM container's home directory, so Ray can access your `runtime_env`'s private remote URI, even when they don't contain credentials.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add the `netrc` file to your VM container's home directory, so Ray can access the `runtime_env`'s private remote URI, even when they don't contain credentials.
```

## Running on KubeRay: Secrets with netrc

> [KubeRay](https://ray-project.github.io/kuberay/) can also obtain credentials from a `netrc` file for remote URIs. You can supply your `netrc` file using a Kubernetes secret and a Kubernetes volume with these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[KubeRay](https://ray-project.github.io/kuberay/) can also obtain credentials from a `netrc` file for remote URIs. Supply your `netrc` file using a Kubernetes secret and a Kubernetes volume with these steps:
```

1\. Launch your Kubernetes cluster.

> 2\. Create your `netrc` file locally in your home directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2\. Create the `netrc` file locally in your home directory.
```

> 3\. Store your `netrc` file's contents as a Kubernetes secret on your cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3\. Store the `netrc` file's contents as a Kubernetes secret on your cluster:
```

```bash
kubectl create secret generic netrc-secret --from-file=.netrc="$HOME/.netrc"
```

> 4\. Expose the secret to your KubeRay application using a mounted volume, and update the `NETRC` environment variable to point to the `netrc` file. You can include the following YAML in your KubeRay config.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4\. Expose the secret to your KubeRay application using a mounted volume, and update the `NETRC` environment variable to point to the `netrc` file. Include the following YAML in your KubeRay config.
```
